# BLAST taxonomy

These scripts will help you to fetch taxonomic information from a blast result file.

## Contents

### modules

- `gi_taxid_search.py`: This module contains the `GItaxidFinder` class. This class will fetch a taxonid given a ginumber and the `gi_taxid_nucl.dmp` file located on your computer. I described this module in detail in [my blogpost](http://http://bioinformatics-man.blogspot.be/2012/11/finding-taxon-id-of-gi-number.html).
- `blasthittaxonomy.py`: This module contains the `TaxonomyFetcher` class which will fetch taxonomic information from NCBI using the taxonid fetched by the `GItaxidFinder` class. I described this module in detail in [another blogpost](http://http://bioinformatics-man.blogspot.be/2012/11/fetch-taxonomy-information-of-blast-hits.html).

### unit tests

- `Testgi_taxid_search.py`: unittests for the `GItaxidFinder` class.
- `TestTaxonomyFetcher.py`: unittests for the `TaxonomyFetcher` class. This one will not work offline as it actually tries to reach the NCBI servers.

### scripts

- `parsexmlblast.py`: this script will transform your BLAST xml file into a tsv.
- `addTaxonomyToBlastOutput.py`: this script will read in the tsv file created by `parsexmlblast.py` and add taxonomic information to it using the modules in this repo.

## Before you run it

- You might not be happy with the tsv file in between. It was a custom format I used for doing my own stuff so I suggest you change it if you want to. You only need it if you want to run `addTaxonomyToBlastOutput.py` as is. You could also use `addTaxonomyToBlastOutput.py` as a demonstration of how to use the classes in `gi_taxid_search.py` and `blasthittaxonomy.py` and write your own wrapper script.
- Be sure to write your own email address in `blasthittaxonomy.py`. When I wrote these scripts, NCBI did not require you to do so but that could have changed by now. I think it is just a polite thing to do.
- Make sure to get a copy of the `gi_taxid_nucl.dmp` file (I got it from NCBI's ftp servers) and refer to it in `blasthittaxonomy.py`.

## Run the stuff

- Run `parsexmlblast.py`: `./parsexmlblast.py <blastresultsfile>` Make sure the blastresultsfile is in xml.
- Run `addTaxonomyToBlastOutput.py`: `./addTaxonomyToBlastOutput.py <blast output file>`

## Cite this repository

If you want to cite this repository, I recommend you use the following information:

- Author name, as described in the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file,
- The url to this repository, or more precisely, to the version of this repository you used. See the tab [releases](https://github.com/bartaelterman/BlastTaxonomy/releases). For instance `https://github.com/bartaelterman/BlastTaxonomy/releases/tag/v0.2`.
- You can use the name of this repository and/or its description as stated at the top of this repository's home page.

## Thanks

Thank you for your interest. If you encouter any problems or if you have optimized some stuff, let me know by reporting an issue or send a pull request.

